---
title: "Fintech Key-Phrase: A New Chinese Financial High-Tech Dataset Accelerating Expression-Level Information Retrieval"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-11-22-tallip-Fintech-Key-Phrase
excerpt: 'This paper is about the Expression-Level Information Retrieval.'
date: 2023-11-22
venue: 'ACM Transactions on Asian and Low-Resource Language Information Processing'
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3627989'
citation: 'Weiqiang Jin et al. (2023). &quot;ACM Trans. Asian Low-Resour. Lang. Inf. Process. <i>ACM Transactions on Asian and Low-Resource Language Information Processing</i> &quot; 22, 11, Article 253 (November 2023), 37 pages.'
---

Expression-level information extraction is a challenging task in natural language processing (NLP), which aims to retrieve crucial semantic information from linguistic documents. However, there is a lack of up-to-date data resources for accelerating expression-level information extraction, particularly in the Chinese financial high technology field. To address this gap, we introduce Fintech Key-Phrase: a human-annotated key-phrase dataset for the Chinese financial high technology domain. This dataset comprises over 12K paragraphs along with annotated domain-specific key-phrases. We extract the publicly released reports, Chinese management’s discussion and analysis (CMD&A), from the renowned Chinese research data services platform (CNRDS) and then filter the reports related to high technology. The high technology key-phrases are annotated following pre-defined philosophy guidelines to ensure annotation quality. In order to better understand the limitations and challenges in the purposed dataset, we conducted comprehensive noise evaluation experiments for the Fintech Key-Phrase, including annotation consistency assessment and absolute annotation quality evaluation. To demonstrate the usefulness of our released Fintech Key-Phrase in retrieving valuable information in the Chinese financial high technology field, we evaluate its significance using several superior information retrieval systems as representative baselines and report corresponding performance statistics. Additionally, we further applied ChatGPT to the text augmentation approach of the Fintech Key-Phrase dataset. Extensive comparative experiments demonstrate that the augmented Fintech Key-Phrase dataset significantly improved the coverage and accuracy of extracting key phrases in the finance and high-tech domains. We believe that this dataset can facilitate scientific research and exploration in the Chinese financial high technology field. We have made the Fintech Key-Phrase dataset and the experimental code of the adopted baselines accessible on Github: https://github.com/albert-jin/Fintech-Key-Phrase. To encourage newcomers to participate in the financial high-tech domain information retrieval research, we have developed a series of tools, including an open website1 and corresponding real-time information retrieval APIs.

Additional Key Words and Phrases: Information retrieval, expression-level information extraction, financial high technology field, Chinese management’s discussion and analysis, ChatGPT-based data augment.
